(upbeat music)
Hello everybody, Wes Bos here thanks so much for
checking out react for beginners, hopefully you're
pretty excited to start learning react.
There's a couple things we need to do in order to get
setup with all the tooling and editor highlighting
and whatnot so this is a pretty important video to
make sure that we don't hit any bumps down the road.
So first let's talk about tooling, what tools do we need?
First you need to do is make sure that you have Node JS
installed on your computer.
Well we're not actually using Node as a back end service
or server or anything like that, we are using Node JS
to run all of the tooling that is required for
developing locally on our computer.
So if you do not have Node JS installed or if you're
on a older version of Node JS, and the way you can
test that is you go to your terminal and just type in
Node space - V, and that will tell you what
version of Node you're on.
And so if you get an error like Node is not a command
or you see a version that is maybe a couple versions
behind what is the most recent current version on nodejs.org
then go ahead and just download this.
You click next, next, next and it will
install it to your computer.
Next what we need is the react dev tools for either
Chrome or Firefox, and all you need to do is just
search react dev tools+chrome or +firefox and go ahead
and add those to Chrome.
They way you can tell if they are working is that
you need to go to a website that has react on it.
So often I get emails from people where we have this
index.js, and we'll just call it the log hey
and make sure that it's working.
Well it's not going to show up on this at this point
because we don't have react installed on this app yet,
so it won't show up.
So what I like to tell people to do is go over to
Instagram.com or Netflix or Facebook or any application
that is built on react and just open up your dev tools
and you should see a new tab, it's usually at the end here,
you can drag and drop if you wanna go higher in the
order here, and you should see the new react tab
and that will show you your actual application
as react sees it not as the rendered dom output.
And that's gonna be really helpful for us as we
move along through our application.
What we also need is a terminal and if you are on
Windows I recommend you go ahead and grab commander CDMDER
and that will just give you some nicer syntax highlighting.
I am on a Mac for this series so I use one called Hyper
however there is a terminal built into OS X.
It will be under your utilities folder and
jump, jump, jump, you see it's right there,
I'm trying to scroll it into view.
You get the point it's that little one right there.
Or just open up your, what is it, your command space
and type on terminal and you'll see a terminal
window pop open.
We're not going to be doing a whole lot with that but
we do need that to start all of our different tooling.
If you're curious as to what these color schemes are
or how I got the git in my thing right here
or any of the colors or the font or anything that I use,
what kind of toilet paper I use, you can go to
wesbos.com/uses and this is just detailing all of the
different little things that I use.
From what font I use to the different emoji pickers that
everyone seems to ask about.
If it's not on there feel free to tweet me I'm @wesbos
and that should help you out.
That is it.
For your text editor, you can use any text editor that
you're comfortable with.
I am using Visual Studio code in this one but you can use
Atom or Sublime or WebStorm, whatever editor that
you're most comfortable in.
The thing that you need to know about this is
if you're using Sublime text, and I just popped it open here
you need to make sure that you have the java script babel
highlighter or java script babble highlighter and
not the default java script highlighter because there is
some extended syntax highlighting in something called
jsx that we're going to need, and it just won't
look very nice, it just will kind of get in your way
if you don't have it.
So the way you can do that is you can just open this up,
type install and you'll see package control, install package
and then from that you'll be able to find one called,
I think it's just called babel, let me just find it.
List, packages, babel, yeah it looks like this.
Syntax definitions for esx javascript with
react jsx extensions and then once you're in there
you click on this one in the corner, and you click
open all with current extension, triple check
you're in a .js file, open all with current extension as,
find the one that says babel and then click on the one,
I know you can't see this right now but it says
javascript, brackets babel and that will make sure that
your syntax highlighting no matter what file you're
opening is up to snuff.
So what do we got here?
We got the text editor, we did the terminal.
Let's talk about the step solutions.
So log into your course dashboard and you're gonna see that
your course is listed here, and then you're going to see
a link that says starter files.
Click on that and that's going to link you off to my
github where I host all of the starter files
and the step solutions to this course.
So there's gonna be two folders.
There's gonna be one called catch of the day,
and that's going to include, that's our starter file
for working, there's not much in there when we start
because we're going to be building it all together
but that's where we're gonna be working out of
for the entire course.
So that's your sort of home folder.
If you're gonna bookmark a folder on your computer
that's going to be it.
However there is another one called step solutions
and inside of step solutions there's gonna be a folder
that corresponds with the start of every video.
And I'll say that again, these folders here, like 16,
that corresponds with the start of folder 16,
or video 16.
So if you are having trouble in say, video 15,
and you want to make sure that you're exactly where I am
in video 16 and you want to go forward with the
exact same code that I'm working with than you can go
ahead and grab out the changes from video 16.
So you just copy paste those out of whatever corresponding
one, overwrite any files that you have
and then you'll be in catch of the day,
you'll be up and running with what I have.
Now in the catch of the day folder we do need to
install some of our dependencies.
So what I recommend to people is open up the catch of
the day folder in your editor and then also open it up
in your terminal.
Now if you're having trouble finding where that is,
what I recommended to people is that you just type
cd space, and then open up either your windows
explorer or your finder in OS X,
find the folder that you have, and the just go ahead
and just drag and drop that in there and that's gonna
complete the long path of wherever it is in the
bowels of your computer.
And then hit enter and that will bring you to the
actual catch of the day folder that we're trying to look at.
One thing I will say is that make sure you don't have any
weird characters anywhere along the path to your folder.
So sometimes people put dashes or parentheses or emojis
or stars, I don't know all kinds of weird characters,
and that will for sure screw up the file watching
where when we make a change it's gonna automatically
reload the change.
If that's not working it's likely because you have a weird
character in one of your folders along the way.
And that also goes for renaming folders.
If you rename it halfway through that will likely goof
it up so keep things exactly the same as we have here.
Now in your catch of the day folder open up your
package .json, and the package .json, if you've never
seen one what I'm gonna do here is an nmp install
so if you know what that is you can skip this whole section
but for those who don't know, dev dependencies are things
that are needed in order to locally run our application
and two things here are, the first one is called
react scripts and what react scripts is,
is a tool put out but Facebook and it does underneath
the hood, it does all of the compiling and transpiling
of our javascript code in order for it
to run in the browser.
So you may have previously heard of web pack or some
stuff called babel which will convert all of our
jsx to actual react code, there's a whole bunch of stuff
and we're gonna go through what those things are.
But this sort of takes all the complexity of setting
up your own development environment and sort of,
temporarily lets us sweep that stuff under the rug
and just get into building our react application.
So it does the web pack and the babel
under the hood for us.
Now if we want to have a little bit of access to
our web pack and our babel config, then I'm gonna
show you how to do something called eject, near the
end of this course, which will give us
full control over and we can see the actual web
pack config that happens under the hood.
And that's kind of the best of both worlds because
it doesn't like, give you the burden of setting up
your own web pack, which is extremely complicated
up front, although if you do want access to it you
can sort of say pretty please and get access to it.
So those are our dev dependencies.
And then we have a couple dependencies and these are
things that are actually needed in our application
to make it run.
So we'll talk about these ones.
These two are for styling.
This one is going to be for connecting to our database,
which is called fire base.
Prop types is something that's going to allow us to
specify what data gets passed in and
what the data looks like.
And that used to be part of react itself, if you're watching
this tutorial for the second, this used to be part of
react now it's in it's own package.
We'll talk about what those are in it's own video.
Rebase is going to allow us to actually connect to fire base
and sync our changes in real time.
React and react dom are the entire reason why
you're taking this course.
React router is going to allow us to watch for changes
and have special url's.
And then finally this transition group is going
to allow us to have nice little animations swoop
things in and swoop things off the screen and whatnot.
We'll go through what all of those are throughout
the entire course.
But those are the only dependencies that you want.
I will recommend that you stick with these versions
that you have here.
I will be updating the course as react gets updated and
as there are new fundamental changes.
But often what will happen, especially in the case
of like prop types, react might like move part of their
dependency to a secondary package and in that case
it will start spitting warnings into your console.
So just know that these versions will be updated
as I need to and for your best experience in learning
react, keep these versions as they are in here.
And then they might even be different because I'll be
updating the github as we go through them.
Finally we got some scripts here.
I'll go through what all these different ones are but
we're mostly just worried about the start command
right now and that's going to run the babel and the
web pack through this thing called create react app.
So let's open up our terminal here and I am in the
catch of the day folder and we just need to go ahead
and type npm install and that's going to fetch
all of those dependencies that are from our package
.json and it's going to go and download a copy of
each of those so that we can run everything locally
and run our compile.
So depending on the speed of your network and your
computer this might take a minute or two.
Once it's finished it actually doesn't tell you
that it worked, I guess it says added 1,444 packages
in 28 seconds, but it will dump a whole bunch of stuff
on the screen as long as you don't see any actual
errors you might see notices and warnings, but
as long as you don't see any errors you're in good shape.
If you're ever having trouble with your install, I do this
all the time, if something maybe has gone wrong
during the install or it's not starting up like
you think it should be, just go into your folder and find
the noda modules folder there and delete it.
You can also try deleting the package lock file.
I would not delete that the first time though.
Just go ahead and delete it and then run npm install again
and that's going to reinstall all of your dependencies.
Now what we need to do to test if it worked,
I'll clear this all out, you just type
npm start and that's going to start up the
create react app server for us and it's going to load
up our local host.
Generally it's going to be local host 3000.
If you have something else running on the port 3000
its gonna ask you for another port.
It's also gonna tell you what your local network ip
address is, so if you'd like to maybe test out the
application on your phone or another computer,
you can always open it up on that local ip address,
as long as your connected to the same wifi network.
Let's get it running then.
There's not much in here, just this little fold button,
and we're gonna be building the entire app out ourselves.
But then go into your editor and in the source folder
you're going to see an index .js file and that will
have nothing in there.
And just to test that everything is working fine,
just type alert hey inside of there and give it a save.
And when we save it, it should automatically detect
that we made a change to one of our javascript files
and the browser should reload itself.
Give it a save and bam, we get the hey there going
and click okay, and everything is in good shape.
So if we've done all that properly, you see the hey
popping up, then we're ready to actually
start writing some react code.
See you in the next video.